#+TITLE: Billboard
#+HUGO_SECTION: collection
#+HUGO_BASE_DIR: ../../hugo/

* Billboard Particle Renderer
[[./images/billboard.png]]

The *Billboard* module creates and renders a particle system from a set of
points passed into the *Point Cloud Input* jack. Spawn Rate controls how
frequently new particles are emitted from the input point cloud positions.

*Life* sets the time in seconds each particle lasts before disappearing.

*Size* sets the initial size of each particle.

*Growth* sets how much bigger each particle gets over its lifetime. Setting this
to a negative value will cause particles to shrink over time.

*Fade* controls the intensity at which each particle fades colour over its
lifetime. Setting this to a positive value fades the particle in over time, and
setting it to a negative value fades the particles out as it dies.

*Turbulence* controls the intensity of a 3D perlin noise-field applied to the
positions of all particles, causing a 'wave'-like rippling effect. The *Scale*
and *Delay* parameters to the left manipulate the parameters of this
noise-field.

*Scale* sets the overall size of the field. A larger value will result in bigger
and slower turbulence, and a smaller value results in more frequent waves.

*Delay* controls the time it takes for each particle to ramp to the desired
turbulence intensity. Keeping the knob in the middle gives all particles a
constant turbulence over their lifetime. Giving it a positive value makes each
particle emit at its input position and get more turbulent over time. Giving it
a negative value starts the particle in a turbulent position when its emitted,
and moves it to the input position over time.

*Fuzz* controls how much random noise is applied to each particle. This differs
to Turbulence because the noise values are not bound to any predictable waves.
They are randomised each frame â€” similar to white noise.

The three *Force* parameters control directional energy applied to each
particle. A force on the X-axis will control how intensely the particles are
pushed to the left or right after the particle is emitted from its initial
position. Similarly, a force on the Y-axis controls how intensely each particle
is pushed up or down, and a force on the Z-axis controls how intensely each
particle is pushed forward or backward. The X and Z Force parameters give an
effect similar to wind, and the Y Force parameter gives a gravity (or
anti-gravity) effect.

The *Point Cloud Thru* port echoes the point cloud passed into the input,
without any modifications, and the *Active* button switches rendering on or off
entirely.
